In the last video you created a complete copy of a WordPress site at a different server location and
It was easy but what was really going on by migrating the site manually you'll do all the steps yourself
and through the process learn all the steps and how they work together.
By the end of this video you'll understand the process of migrating a WordPress site and you'll be able
Let's get going.
Start by making sure that you're logged into your brochure dash site WordPress installation locally
using map and click Open start page so that you can open this map start page and be able to access the
go to the see panel and down here under databases you can access it through DHP.
My admin what we're going to be doing is moving the fire weed photography site that we made in the last
This time we're not going to be using the plugin but we're going to be doing it manually instead of
We're going to be copying all the files from the original brochure site you are ill and file structure
including the database.
So the first thing I'm going to do is open up windows explorer and I've got the same window open on
The first thing I've already done is created a folder using this new folder button inside my map HD
Now it's empty at this point but what I'm going to do is take the entire file structure from brochure
So I'll pause the video while that's copying for ground users will use the file manager to do this migration
of files ourselves.
So when the file manager.
I know I have the files for this site within the brochure site folder.
I'm going to go back up one level and create a new folder.
I'm going to call this one manual migration and now that I have that folder there I need to capture
all the files from brochure Dasch site.
I just held shift down and I'm going to compress them into a zip file so it will be easy to download
and then upload into the next folder.
So now that that's created my zip file I can reload the page to take a look for it.
But I'll take this file and then I'll double click it to download it to my computer.
Great now that's downloaded it's in my downloads folder on my computer.
I could go up one level again and go into manual migration and since this directory is empty I know
Here it is that will give me a message at the bottom right when it's done uploading.
Now that that says 8 megabytes complete I can just click go back and it will close that tab.
And I've got my zip file there.
There we go.
Now I can reload the page and I got all my files there again.
I can delete this zip file since it made a copy and unzipped the files into the same directory
back in Windows Explorer.
The files have downloaded into the map folder.
There it is now that I have an exact copy of the file structure that brochure say is using over in my
I'm going to create a new database and then make a copy of the database that this site uses inside that
So I'll go back into Firefox and open the map start page and I get a quick Ph.
My admin is managing the databases that are being used within my sequel.
That map is using on the server on my local machine and when that opens.
I'm going to call it manual migration
now if you recall when we make a fresh WordPress installation we use the Wordpress installation script
in order for it to connect to the database and then populate the actual database tables and rows.
Now this is an empty database in the same way that we've done it before but what we're going to do is
export all the database tables from the brochure dash site database and then we're going to import them
into the manual migration thereby creating an exact copy of the database.
So within HP my admin click brochure site and you can make sure that the databases brochure site up
all we do is keep the default settings and click go.
And that will prompt our browser to save a file and I'll just click OK.
Great that's in my downloads folder.
Now all I have to do is click the manual migration database.
Now I can tell that it's the database that I'm in is manual migration and I'll click the import tab
leave everything as the default again click Browse and go ahead and go into my downloads folder.
Find that brochure site.
Dot Cuil file and select it hit open and I can go to the bottom and click go.
There we go.
And it says import has been successfully finished 96 queries executed and we can go ahead and look at
I click manual migration or hit the structure tab.
You can see that all those tables are within it and there we go.
There's a couple of more steps to edit.
And if you're in the database under manual migration Now let's look at W.P. options.
You can see that the old U R L is in here under site you are Apple and home.
And we want to change that to the new manual migration.
You are a
there is one and there's two ground.
We'll create a new database slightly differently go down to my sequel databases and then we're going
So I'll call this one manual and I've got to remember that the database name is Greg.
The 11 underscore manual that I need to create a user that's sure enough I can call it the same thing
and choose a password
to create that user with the user name and password that again I need to remember
that I need to give that user access to its database
when to give that user all privileges.
And it's been updated so I can go back now.
I'll just quickly write down all the information that I just entered so I don't forget it.
Now I can go back to the see Pernell home and go back down to the databases section to open THP.
My admin Now if I look under grade 11 I can see my different databases here and if I click manual you
Just like when working locally with map I just have to go into the brochure database and export the
and then I can close that go into the manual which is empty and import that same file.
Click manual on the left here to look at the tables and go into the options just like when working in
on both site Eurail and home rose.
Now there's one more change we need to make to make our new RL work in a new tab up here and be a duplicate
of this old Tab brochure site and that is to edit the WP config file.
I'm going to go into Windows Explorer again and in my manual migration remember we made an exact copy
So I'm going to go ahead and open Adam the code editor and navigate to this manual migration set of
I'll have file in Adam and add a new project folder.
I'm going to find it within H.T. docs and manual migration
great.
this one is in manual migration great.
Now instead of brochure site this one is going to the new database name
and the user name the password and the host should be all the same I click control as to save and now
that should be the last step.
If I type localhost slash my uro
if everything's connected correctly I should get an exact copy of the site.
Nice.
Looks like everything is working well.
I'll open a new tab and make sure I can log in to the WP admin area
and I've created an exact copy so my username and password will be the same as that user and password
You are is correct.
I'm logged in.
Everything seems to be working.
And to edit the WP config file if you're on safe ground.
The easiest way is to go to the file manager and use that code editor on W.P. config.
of a brochure site.
So I clicked code editor and edit and I'll put my new credentials in down here.
Click Save and I can close this window.
I should be able to navigate to the new site in the same way as locally.
As I mentioned in the last video this time the home button has not been changed.
So there's one more change we need to make within the Wordpress interface and that is to edit this menu
I'm just going to go ahead and edit the menu and change that custom You rail to the new home page.
And I'll hit save menu.
And that should fix it.
Let's see.
Nice.
You are l.
All the other links that we've populated this site with our relative links and so there are pages or
to the New York and stayed correct.
You can run a simple check within the database to see if any of the you URLs are the wrong one after
If you're inside the manual migration database go to the search tab and I might search for the exact
brochure site and then select all the tables and hit go zero matches.
So I know that in the whole database there's nothing that says the old you are all if you do happen
I'll open the search window again and show you the links that come up that contain manual dash migration.
For example if you do come up with.
Looks like there's two matches NWP options one match in posts matter.
If you get the old link coming up you could say browse and that'll open up those rows in the same window
and you can go ahead and edit them right here.
If you have a lot of search and replace or a lot of database tables to change that you could run a search
and replace function.
There's a great search and replace plug in here with more than 100000 active installs and this one looks
Better search replace this will be convenient to use in the case that you're migrating a site to a different
L perhaps and it has a lot of posts or a lot of pages that contain references to the old site name.
Nice job.
In this video you made a complete copy of a Web site and moved it to a new location without installing
You made the appropriate edits to the database and the WP config file to make everything work together.
In the next video we'll look at some of the differences in how hosting companies work with the files
hosting companies provide migration services as a part of their business.